## Description:

This is the location of the code development for the Off-grid Solar Irrigation Capstone Project originally by WSU-V students, Emily, Nate, and Gunnar sponsored by TSMC Washington (formerly WaferTech). The project is at rest until further interest is found within the community. 

## Motivation:

In efforts to drive environmental awareness and promote green energy, TSMC WA wished to help the community by planting native species plants, trees, and shrubs on two, one-acre fields located a short distance away from their Camas HQ. 

## GOAL:
The goal of this project was to design an off-grid, portable, maintenance-free irrigation System. The system must to operate independently for Camas's three driest summer months, June, July, and August. The system must increase plant survivability by at least 10% form an estimated 50% survivability of existing plants after one year. 

## Methodology:

### Part I: Feasibility Study and Proposal
* Study the effect of the proposed water disruption in relation to average monthly rainfall in Camas.
* Measure plant survivability of existing one-year-old crop.
* Present 3-4 viable irrigation system solutions.
* Measure ground pressures for suitable location for 3,000 gallon cistern.

### Part II: Design Build
* Submit design drawings and Bill of Materials.
* Purchase Request of Materials.
 * Build Prototype and Test.

## Project Resources:
1. Google Drive - contains all original design and construction documents generated by the team since project start in October, 2023 (~6 months worth). 
	https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/18SrwelF2VfFT5OeDlSeecs2BDw9y_muR?usp=sharing

2. Onshape - Original design of the skid, part models, and a basic rain water collection idea. 
	https://cad.onshape.com/documents/2a26568aabda4f27cc459c94/w/9f47c9ae6de155bdd2cd9205/e/d863c7d1090a392398fba123

## Other Resources:
1. WireViz - an opensource Wire Connector/Harness diagram generator hosted on GitHub. 
	 https://github.com/wireviz/WireViz/tree/master


## License:
Off-Grid Solar-Irrigation-Pump © 2024 by Gunnar Blomquist, Emily Hickel, Nate Monti, Hannah Montgomery, Sally Hurst, & Jeremy Cram is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International. To view a copy of this license, visit https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/

### Contact & Other
* Author: Gunnar
* Email: gunnarblom24497@gmail.com
* Last Updated: 2024-04-29